---
tag: []
title: ''
redirect_from: []
summary: ''
published: false

---
This guide provides step-by-step instructions on setting up SAML SSO using [Microsoft Active Directory Federation Services](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/identity/ad-fs/ad-fs-overview%22) (AD FS).

## Before you start

Before connecting SAML SSO to your Organization (Org) on Bitrise, make sure:

* The AD FS administrator is at hand during the SAML SSO configuration process.
* As with other [Organization management actions](https://devcenter.bitrise.io/team-management/organizations/members-organizations/), only the Bitrise Org owner can set up SAML SSO to a Bitrise Organization.
* Your account on Bitrise has an Org with [Org Elite plan or Velocity plan](https://www.bitrise.io/pricing). If it doesn’t have an Org, go ahead and [create one](https://devcenter.bitrise.io/team-management/organizations/creating-org/). Setting up SAML SSO is the same for existing and brand new Orgs on Bitrise.

## Navigating to Single Sign On page of Bitrise

If you are an Org owner on Bitrise, you will have to use the **Single Sing On** tab to set up SAML SSO connection between your AD FS and your Bitrise Org.

1. On your Bitrise [Dashboard](https://app.bitrise.io/dashboard/builds) click your avatar, then click [**Account settings**](https://app.bitrise.io/me/profile#/overview) in the dropdown.
2. The **Overview** page displays all the Orgs you’re member of. Select the Org where you wish to set up the SAML SSO connection.
3. On the left menu bar, click **Single Sign On** which will take you to the **Enable Single Sign On** page.
4. Continue with Configuring SAML SSO on AD FS and Bitrise.

## Configuring SAML SSO on AD FS and Bitrise

In this tutorial we will be jumping back and forth between Bitrise and AD FS so it is recommended that both tools are available during this process.

1. On the **Enable** **Single Sign-On** page of Bitrise add the **Identity provider sign-on URL**.  
   For example, a valid value is https://<AD FS URL>.com/adfs/ls.
2. Continue with exporting a certificate from AD FS.

### Exporting a certificate

 1. You have to add a certificate generated by AD FS to the **Certificate** field of the **Enable Single Sign-On** page on Bitrise. If you’ve already created a certificate on AD FS, you can export it in PEM format from the AD FS server. If you haven’t created one yet, follow the instructions on XYBNY.
 2. In Server Manager, click **Tools**, and select **AD FS Management**.
 3. Select the **Certificates** folder on the left menu pane.
 4. Click a certificate under **Token-signing**. This brings up the **Certificates** window.
 5. Click **Details** tab on the **Certificate** page.
 6. Hit **Next** on the Certificate Export Wizard window.
 7. Select the **Base-64 encoded X.509 (.CER)** the export file format. Click **Next**.
 8. Give it a name in the **File name** field and hit **Save**.
 9. Have a final look at your certificate settings. If you need to modify any of those, click the backward arrow next to **Certificate Export Wizard**. Otherwise, click **Finish**. Make sure you leave the AD FS window open as you will need it in a minute.
10. Open the exported certificate by a text editor and copy/paste its content to the **Certificate** field on the **Enable Single Sign-On** page of Bitrise.
11. Save the settings by clicking **Configure SSO** on Bitrise.
    Let’s continue the SAML SSO configuration on AD FS by adding Bitrise.

### Adding Bitrise as a replying party trust to AD FS

Once you are finished with exporting the certificate, you can continue with adding Bitrise as a[ replying party trust to AD FS](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/identity/ad-fs/operations/create-a-relying-party-trust). The Add Relying Party Trust Wizard guides you through the steps.

 1. On AD FS click **Trust Relationships** on the left menu bar, then **Relying Party Trust**.
 2. Select **Add Relying Party Trust** under the **Actions**.
 3. On the **Welcome** page, select the **Claims aware** option and hit **Start**.
 4. On the **Select Data Source** page, click the **Enter data about the relying party manually** option on the bottom of the page. Click **Next**.
 5. On the **Specify Display Name** page, type the name of your Bitrise Org in the **Display name** field. Click **Next**.
 6. Specifying a token encryption certificate on the **Configure Certificate** page is optional. Click **Next**.
 7. On the Configure URL page, select **Enable support for the SAML 2.0 WebSSO protocol** and paste the **Single Sign-On URL** from Bitrise to the field.
 8. On the **Configure Identifiers** page, add Bitrise in the **Relying party trust identifier** field. Click **Add**, then hit **Next**.
 9. Do not modify the default access control policy on the **Choose Access Control Policy** page so that every Org member can access _what_. Click **Next**.
10. On the **Ready to Add Trust** page, review the settings and click **Next**.
11. On the **Finish** page, tick the checkbox to edit claims issuance policy for _Bitrise_. Click **Close**.
12. On the **Edit Claim** **Issuance Policy** page, click the **Add Rule** button and hit OK.
13. Use the claim rule template **Send LDAP Attributes as Claims** and click **Next**.
14. On the **Configure Claim Rule** page:
    \-Add a rule name, for example Send E-mail, in the **Claim rule name** field.
    \-Select an **Attribute Store** which is most likely Active Directory.
    \-In the **Mapping of LDAP attributes to outgoing claim types** field select E-mail Addresses.
15. Click **Finish**.
16. Add a new rule that turns an E-mail to a formatter NameID. Click **Add rule** in the **Edit Claim** **Issuance Policy** page?
17. On the **Select Rule Template**, select Transform an Incoming Claim option in the **Claim rule template** dropdown. Click **Next**.
18. Give the rule a name, for example, Transform E-mail.

* Select **E-Mail Address** as the _Incoming Claim Type_.
* Select **NameId** as the outgoing claim type/Issued Claims?. Choose **Email** as the Outgoing name ID format. Click Finish.

## What’s next?

Learn how you can [log into your Org now that SAML SSO is set up](https://bitrise.atlassian.net/team-management/organizations/saml-sso-in-organizations/#logging-in-via-saml-sso-with-a-bitrise-account).

You might wan to [check out Org member’s SAML SSO statuses](https://bitrise.atlassian.net/team-management/organizations/saml-sso-in-organizations/#checking-saml-sso-statuses-on-bitrise) once the connection is up.

You might want to [enforce SAML SSO login to the Org](https://bitrise.atlassian.net/team-management/organizations/saml-sso-in-organizations/#enforcing-saml-sso-on-an-organization) once all Org members have authorized their SAML SSO connection to the Org.

Disabling SAML SSO is very simple - [learn how.](https://bitrise.atlassian.net/team-management/organizations/saml-sso-in-organizations/#disabling-an-organizations-saml-sso)

{% include message_box.html type="note" title="SAML SSO on Bitrise" content=" If you'd like to learn more about SAML SSO on Bitrise, check out our [SAML SSO in organizations](/team-management/organizations/saml-sso-in-organizations/) guide."%}