---
title: Account Security
redirect_from: []
menu:
  getting-started:
    weight: 6

---
## Enable Two-factor authentication

We provide an extra layer of security if you enable Two-factor authentication (TFA) on your Bitrise account.

1. Download and install [Google Authenticator](https://support.google.com/accounts/answer/1066447?hl=en) on your phone.
2. Log in to [bitrise.io](https://www.bitrise.io) and go to your `Profile`.
3. Click `Account settings`.
4. Scroll down and click `Security` on the left.
5. Click on `Enable` under `Two-factor authentication`.
6. Open your Google Authenticator and scan the QR-code that appears on your screen.
7. Enter the 6-digit code that was generated.
8. Once you have activated your TFA and saved your recovery codes, you will receive a confirmation email from `letsconnect@bitrise.io`.

We recommend that you check your connected accounts (GitHub, Bitbucket, GitLab and Xamarin) and enable TFAs if you haven't already.

## Generate personal access tokens manually

There are two types of personal access tokens in your `Security` tab of your profile:

* the `auto-generated` ones, which are generated by Bitrise automatically whenever communicating with the Bitrise API
* the `user-generated` ones which you can manually generate for yourself

Follow the steps to create a new token manually!

1. In your `Security` tab, click on `Generate new`.
2. Fill out the `Token description` field and select the appropriate expiration time (1 hour, 1 day, 1 month or never) for your token.
3. Click `Save & Continue`.
4. In the `Personal Access token` pop-up window, you can see your newly generated token. Save it somewhere safe now so that you can use it later.
5. Click `Done`.

In your `Security` page, now you can see all your tokens with their expiration date and with the option to `Edit` or `Remove` them.